Now, that you've seen an overview of the A* search algorithm,
let's have a look at the structure of
the code you will be writing throughout this lesson.
Your main function will call three functions.
The first function is the ReadBoardFile function that you wrote in the last lesson.
Next main will call search,
which we'll discuss more in a moment.
Finally, main will call PrintSolution,
which you also wrote in the last lesson.
So let's have a closer look at the search function.
The search function keeps a list of open nodes which we'll call the open list,
and search has a while loop that continues as
long as there are still nodes in the open list to explore.
While there are still nodes open,
search will call cellsort,
to sort the open list according to the sum of the heuristic and cost values.
Once the open list has been sorted,
the next node is popped from the list.
Sort will check if this node is the goal and if it is sort returns.
Otherwise, sort will call expand neighbors to loop
through the neighbors of the current node and
add the valid neighbors through the open list.
To do this, for each neighbor,
there are several steps.
First, expand neighbors calls the function CheckValidCell on the neighbor.
This function checks that the neighbors coordinates
are on the grid and that the grid cell is empty.
That is, it checks the cell has not already been
visited and is not occupied by an obstacle.
Next, the heuristic function has called for the neighbor,
which calculates the Manhattan or taxicab distance from that neighbor to the goal.
Finally, the neighbor node is added to the open list,
and the grid cell is marked as closed.
Don't worry if this algorithm seems complicated right now.
Each of these parts will be separate exercises and as you build the code,
you'll gain a better understanding of how A* works.